## TABLE  5-5 
 

 ESTIMATED  POLLUTANT  REMOVAL  EFFICIENCIES 

 FOR  COMMON  STORMWATER  TREATMENT  FACILITIES
 
 
TYPE  OF  SYSTEM 
ESTIMATED  REMOVAL  EFFICIENCIES  (%) 
To ta l N 
Total  P 
TSS 
BOD 
Retention, Reuse, 
Source Reduction, Swales 100% for Retained Volume 
 Wet Detention 

 

a.  7-day detention time 

b.  14-day detention time 
 
 
20 

30 
 
 
60 

70 
 
 
85 

85 
 
 
50 

60 
Dry Detention 0-30 0-40 90 0-50 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-16 
 
 
Of the three basic stormwater treatment syst
ems, retention provides the highest level of 
treatment possible.  All stormwater runoff retain
ed or infiltrated into 
the ground is assumed to 
have a 100% mass pollutant removal efficiency for th
e retained volume.  This is the best possible 
stormwater treatment system to use in terms of pollutant removal efficiency.  Mass removal 

efficiencies for wet detention have been divi
ded into 7-day and 14-day detention times, with 
mass removal efficiencies ranging from 20-30% 
for total nitrogen, 60-70% for total phosphorus, 
85% for TSS, and 50-60% for BOD.  Estimated 
mass removal efficiencies for dry detention 
systems are 0-30% for total nitrogen, 0-40% fo
r total phosphorus, 90% for TSS, and 0-50% for 
BOD, depending on the relationship between the pond bottom or underdrain and the 

groundwater table elevation.  These removal effi
ciencies are based upon anticipated settling of 
TSS within the pond and the range of listed polluta
nts present in a particulate form.  Based on 
the information provided in Table 5-5, the most 
effective stormwater management system in 
terms of retaining stormwater pollutants is 
dry retention, followed by wet detention, and dry 
detention systems.   
 
 
   5.2PerformanceEfficiencyofExisting
 
    StormwaterDesignCriteria
 
 
 The literature review presented in the previous
 section provides estimates of the performance 
efficiency of stormwater management systems wh
ich have been evaluated within the State of 
Florida.  However, each of these studies reflects 
relatively site-specific performance efficiency data 
based upon the specific design of the stormwat
er management facility and the regional 
meteorological characteristics in the vicinity of th
e study site.  Since meteorological characteristics 
and design criteria for stormwater management syst
ems vary widely throughout the State of Florida, 
performance efficiency data for a stormwater mana
gement system constructed in one part of the 
state may not be applicable to similar stormwater 
management systems constructed in other parts of 
the State. 

 

 Evaluations were conducted as part of this ev
aluation to provide estimates of the anticipated 
performance efficiencies of stormwater management
 systems within the State of Florida considering 
variations in design criteria and meteorological ch
aracteristics throughout the State.  These analyses 
are then used to compare the anticipated performa
nce efficiency of stormwater management systems 
constructed according to current design criteria w
ith the overall performance efficiency objectives 
outlined in the Water Resource Implementation Rule (Chapter 62-40 FAC).   

 

 
5.2.1 DryRetention
 
 
 As discussed in Section 2, design criteria for dry retention systems within the State of Florida 

are based upon providing treatment for a volume equivale
nt to a certain depth 
of runoff, typically 0.5 
inch, over the project area, or the runoff generated fr
om a specified rain event, typically 1 inch.   
Estimates of the annual mass removal efficiencies a
ssociated with these design criteria are discussed 
in the following sections. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-17 
 

 
 
5.2.1.1  Evaluation Methodology
 
 
 The anticipated annual mass removal efficiencies achieved by dry retention systems were 

valuated for each of the five meteorological z
ones over a wide range of DCIA percentages and 
non-DCIA curve numbers.  These evaluations we
re conducted using a continuous simulation of 
runoff volumes generated on a hypothe
tical 1 acre site using the historical rainfall data sets for 
meteorological sites in each of the five zone
s.  This analysis was performed for DCIA 
percentages ranging from 0-100 in 5-unit inte
rvals and for non-DCIA curve numbers ranging 
from 30-95 in 5-unit intervals, along with 
a non-DCIA curve number of 98, comprising 315 
combinations of DCIA percentages and non-DCIA curve numbers. 

 

 The runoff generated by individual rain ev
ents was calculated using the continuous 
simulation methodology outlined in Section 4.2.1.  
This methodology was used to estimate the 
runoff volume generated by individual rain events 
within the historical rainfall records.  The 
runoff generated by the rain event was instantane
ously routed into a theoretical dry retention 
pond with a treatment volume equivalent to a sp
ecified depth of runoff or the runoff from a 
specified rain event.  A hypothetical drawdow
n curve was established for the retention pond 
based upon typical drawdown design 
criteria which require recovery of 50% of the treatment 
volume in 24 hours and 100% of the treatment 
volume in 72 hours.  If the runoff volume 
exceeded the capacity of the retention pond, th
e remaining volume was assumed to bypass the 
pond directly with a treatment efficiency of 0.  
Each storm within the historical record was 
routed through the theoretical retention pond with excess runoff assumed to bypass the system. 

 

 The evaluation methodology used to estimate th
e performance efficiency of dry retention 
systems is based upon the following assumption: 

 
 

Watershed areas contributing to each stormwater management facility do not exhibit 

first-flush effects with respect to runo
ff concentrations.  Although small, highly 
impervious watershed areas, typically less than 
5-10 acres in size, may exhibit first- flush 
effects under certain conditions, there is no scien
tific evidence to indicate that larger sub-
basin areas exhibit a first-flush effect on a 
continuous basis.  Therefore, the analyses 
presented in this report may be somewhat c
onservative for small basins which exhibit a 
first-flush effect.  
 
 
For this analysis, it is assumed that the 
calculated performance efficiency of a dry 
retention stormwater management system is base
d entirely upon the percentage of water retained 
during each storm event.  For a dry retention system, it is assumed that a pollutant removal 

efficiency of 100% is achieved for the entire treatme
nt volume retained within
  the  system.  As a 
result, removal efficiencies of 100% are achieve
d for all rainfall events which generate runoff 
volumes less than or equal to the available tr
eatment volume within the pond.  Rainfall events 
which generate runoff in excess of the ava
ilable volume are assumed to have a removal 
efficiency of 100% for all generated runoff up to the available treatment volume, with a removal 

efficiency of 0% for runoff inputs in excess of the treatment volume.   

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-18 
 

 
Pollutant removal effi ciencies were calculated for selected dry retention treatment 
volumes for each meteorological zone and each of
 the 315 combinations of DCIA and non-DCIA 
curve number listed previously based upon the assumptions outlined in the previous paragraphs. 

 Removal efficiencies were calculated  for  re
tention  treatment  volumes  ranging  from  0.25 
inch to  4.0 inches of  runoff  
in 0.25-inch increments.  Removal efficiencies were also calculated 
for retention volumes based on the runoff from
 a specified rainfall depth ranging from 0.25-4.0 
inches in 0.25-inch increments. 
 

 
 
5.2.1.2  Design Criteria Based on Runoff Depth
 
 
 Estimates of annual mass removal efficiencies 
for dry retention as a function of selected 
runoff depths, DCIA percentages, and non-DCIA
 curve numbers are given in Appendix D for 
each of the five meteorological zones.  In genera
l, the annual removal efficiency of a retention 
pond increases as the retention depth increases.  
Also, treatment efficiency decreases as the 
DCIA percentage and non-DCIA curve number incr
ease.  The removal efficiencies summarized 
in these tables are valid for all stormwater 
constituents since the efficiencies are based upon 
retention of a specific runoff volume within the 
retention pond.  As a result, the stated removal 
efficiencies are assumed to be valid for all st
ormwater constituents, including total nitrogen, total 
phosphorus, TSS, and BOD. 

 

 A common design requirement for dry retention systems is a retention treatment volume 

of 0.5 inch of runoff or 1.25 inches
 of runoff from the impervious area, whichever is greater. 
Based on this criteria, projects with 40% imperv
ious area or less will be required to provide 
retention for 0.5 inch of runoff, while projects with impervious percentages in excess of 40% 

will be regulated by 1.25 inch of runoff from the impervious area. 

 

 A summary of calculated annual mass removal efficiencies for a dry retention pond with 

a treatment volume equivalent to 0.5-inch of runo
ff is given in Table 5-6 for each of the five 
meteorological zones over a wide range of DCIA percentages and non-DCIA curve numbers.  In 

general, annual mass removal efficiencies of 
80% or more, as required the Water Resource 
Implementation  Rule  (Chapter  62-40 FAC), are 
obtained with a treatment volume equivalent to 
0.5 inches of runoff only for projects with lo
w percentage DCIA and low non-DCIA curve 
number values.  On a state-wide average, a rem
oval efficiency of 80% can only be achieved at 
DCIA percentages of 25-35% or less and non-DC
IA curve numbers of approximately 45-55 or 
less.  An example of a development which woul
d meet these characteristics is a single-family 
residential community constructed on HSG A soils
 with grass cover in fair to good condition. 
All developments with DCIA percentages a
nd non-DCIA curve numbers in excess of these 
values will fail to meet the 80% removal criteri
on with a retention treatment volume equivalent 
to 0.5 inch of runoff. 

 

 A graphical comparison of estimated annua
l pollutant removal efficiencies obtained 
using 0.5 inch of dry retention in a hypothetical 
development with a DCIA percentage of 40% 
and a non-DCIA curve number of 70 is given in 
Figure 5-5.  Annual removal efficiencies range 
from approximately 58-69% between the five mete
orological zones.  The lowest annual removal 
efficiencies would be obtained 
in the Panhandle area, with the highest annual removal pollutant 
efficiencies achieved in the Central areas. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT
