<!-- NEEDS USER REVIEW -->
## TABLE  4-21 
 
RECOMMENDED  CURVE  NUMBER  ADJUSTMENTS 
BASED  ON  ANTECEDENT  MOISTURE  CONTENTS 
 
CN  FOR 
CONDITION  II 
CORRESPONDING  CN  FOR  CONDITION 
I 
III 
100 100 100 
95 87 99 
90 78 98 
85 70 97 
80 63 94 
75 57 91 
70 51 87 
65 45 83 
60 40 79 
55 35 75 
50 31 70 
45 27 65 
40 23 60 
35 19 55 
30 15 50 
25 12 45 
20 9 39 
15 7 33 
10 4 26 
5 2 17 
0 0 0 
 
 

 

 Estimates of runoff depths were generated fo
r each of the 45 hourly meteorological sites for 
a wide variety of directly connected impervious
 area (DCIA) and non-DCIA
 curve numbers.  Runoff 
calculations were performed for combinations 
of DCIA values ranging from 0-100%, in 5% 
increments, and for non-DCIA curve numbers ranging from 30-95, in 5-unit increments, along with 

a non-DCIA curve number of 98.  The calculated r
unoff depth for each combination of DCIA and 
non-DCIA curve number represents the total 
runoff generated for the assumed hydrologic 
characteristics over the entire period of record for a gi
ven site.  The total runoff depth is then divided 
by the total rainfall depth which occurred over the entire period of record to generate a runoff C 

value for each combination of DCIA and curve number. 

 

 The runoff coefficient ranges 
from 0-1 and represents the ratio of runoff depth to the 
precipitation depth.  The rated C Value is calculated using the following equation: 

 

 
C Value =
 
Generated Runoff (depth or volume)
 
Total Rainfall (depth or volume)
 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-34 
 

 
Runoff C values can be calculated on either an even
t basis or for an annual period.  The calculated C 
value for each combination of DCIA and curve numbe
r reflects the average runoff/rainfall ratio for a 
given meteorological monitoring site over the entir
e available period of record.  The calculated 
runoff C value does not represent anticipated rain
fall/runoff relationships for any given year, but 
does reflect anticipated runoff/rainfall relationships over an extended period of time for each site.   

 

 
4.2.2 Impacts of Rainfall Distributions on Runoff Depth
 
 
 The variability in fr equency distributions of i
ndividual rain events, discussed in the previous 
section, has the potential to impact rainfall/runoff rela
tionships for individual rain events as well as 
on an annual basis.  Areas which have a large num
ber of small rain events which generate little 
measurable runoff may have a lower annual runoff 
coefficient than a similar area in a different 
portion of the State which is char
acterized by a high frequency of large rain events which generate 
significant runoff. 

 

 The potential impacts of rainfall frequency di
stributions on runoff volumes were evaluated 
by conducting simulations of the annual runoff 
depth generated by typical residential and 
commercial developments constructed at various locations throughout the State.  Eight separate 

undeveloped and developed land use categories were 
assumed to evaluate the impacts of rainfall 
distributions on annual runoff coe
fficients.  A summary of hydrologic assumptions used for the 
developed land use categories is given in Table 4-
22.  The low-density residential areas are assumed 
to have approximately 15% impervious area, 
with 5% of the area as DCIA.  Hydrologic 
characteristics are provided for single-family residential developments based on 25% impervious 

and 40% impervious conditions.  High-density reside
ntial areas are assumed to be 65% impervious, 
with 80% impervious assumed for commercial activitie
s.  Curve numbers for pervious areas are also 
included based on soil types and assumptions rega
rding landscaped conditions.  Highway land use 
categories are also included, based upon 50% and 
75% impervious assumptions.  Curve number 
values for pervious areas are provided for each of the four major hydrologic soil groups. 
 

Estimates of the annual runoff depths genera
ted by the land use categories summarized in 
Table 4-22 were calculated using the continuous
 simulation methodology outlined in Section 4.2.1 
and the hydrologic characteristics summarized in Tabl
e 4-22.  These estimates were calculated for 
each of the 45 NCDC hourly precipitation monitori
ng stations summarized in Table 4-19.  This 
process resulted in a total of 1440 separate l
ong-term continuous simulations by modeling annual 
long-term runoff coefficients for each of the eight
 land use types, four individual soil groups, and 45 
monitoring stations.  The calculated runoff coeffici
ents for each combination of monitoring site, land 
use, and curve number reflect the average annual r
unoff coefficient for the modeled monitoring sites 
over the entire available period of record. 
 

The runoff C values generated as a result of th
e process outlined above were evaluated using 
a K-means clustering algorithm to identify similaritie
s and differences in a
nnual runoff coefficients 
for each of the eight land use types and four soil gr
oups across the State of Florida.  The clustering 
algorithm attempts to mi nimi ze the squared erro
r objective function, representing the distance 
measured between a data point and the center of a c
hosen cluster.  Clustering is simply a method of 
partitioning a data set into sub-sets (clusters) so that
 the data in each sub-set are statistically similar 
for the evaluated common trait. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-35
