## TABLE  4-24 
 
SUMMARY  OF  MEAN  RUNOFF  COEFFICIENTS 
FOR  EACH  CLUSTER  AS  A  FUNCTION  OF  LAND 
USE  AND  HYDROLOGIC  SOIL  GROUP 
 
LAND  USE 
HYDROLOGI
C 
SOIL  GROUP 
CLUSTER 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Undeveloped Land 
A 0.015 0.007 0.013 0.011 0.018 
B 0.064 0.039 0.052 0.050 0.067 
C 0.126 0.087 0.103 0.105 0.127 
D 0.176 0.128 0.143 0.149 0.173 
Low-Density 
Residential Areas 
A 0.092 0.069 0.081 0.079 0.093 
B 0.166 0.126 0.140 0.144 0.164 
C 0.238 0.187 0.200 0.210 0.232 
D 0.294 0.237 0.248 0.262 0.284 
Single-Family 
Residential Areas 
(25% Impervious) 
A 0.155 0.136 0.143 0.144 0.151 
B 0.206 0.173 0.184 0.188 0.202 
C 0.268 0.223 0.235 0.243 0.260 
D 0.313 0.262 0.272 0.285 0.302 
Single-Family 
Residential Areas 
(40% Impervious) 
A 0.245 0.220 0.227 0.231 0.237 
B 0.294 0.257 0.266 0.273 0.284 
C 0.350 0.303 0.312 0.324 0.337 
D 0.391 0.339 0.347 0.362 0.375 
High-Density 
Residential Areas 
A 0.455 0.423 0.424 0.436 0.435 
B 0.490 0.450 0.453 0.467 0.469 
C 0.529 0.483 0.485 0.503 0.506 
D 0.556 0.508 0.509 0.529 0.531 
Commercial Areas 
A 0.648 0.613 0.609 0.628 0.618 
B 0.664 0.625 0.622 0.642 0.633 
C 0.683 0.641 0.637 0.658 0.651 
D 0.697 0.653 0.649 0.671 0.664 
Highway Areas 
(50% Impervious) 
A 0.444 0.415 0.416 0.427 0.425 
B 0.481 0.442 0.445 0.459 0.460 
C 0.517 0.473 0.476 0.492 0.495 
D 0.546 0.498 0.500 0.519 0.522 
Highway Areas 
(75% Impervious) 
A 0.647 0.612 0.608 0.627 0.616 
B 0.665 0.626 0.623 0.642 0.634 
C 0.683 0.641 0.638 0.659 0.651 
D 0.698 0.654 0.650 0.672 0.665 
 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-40 
 

 
4.2.3 Annual Runoff Generation
 
 
 A summary of calculated mean annual runoff coefficients as a function of curve number and 

DCIA is given in Appendix C for each of the five
 designated meteorological zones.  The values 
presented in these tables reflect the proportion of
 annual rainfall which becomes stormwater runoff 
in each meteorological zone for 315 DCIA and non-
DCIA curve number combinations.  Continuous 
simulations of runoff generation were conducted over 
the period of record for each of the 45 hourly 
meteorological monitoring stations in Florida.  R
unoff calculations were performed for combinations 
of DCIA values ranging from 0-100%, in 5% in
crements, and for non-DCIA curve numbers ranging 
from 30-95, in 5 unit increments.   A non-DCIA 
curve number of 98 was also included in this 
analysis.  The mean runoff C value for each co
mbination of DCIA and curve number value was 
calculated using values from each of the meteorol
ogical monitoring sites within a given zone.  The 
values summarized in Appendix C reflect the averag
e long-term runoff coefficients for each of the 
five designated zones over a wide range of DC
IA and curve number combinations.  The data 
summarized in Appendix C reflect a total of 14,175 
separate long-term continuous simulations of 
runoff coefficients based upon the 21 DCIA intervals, 15 curve number intervals, and 45 

meteorological monitoring sites.  This information is
 used in subsequent sections for evaluation of 
existing stormwater design criteria and to evaluate the performance efficiency of proposed 

alternative regulations. 

 

 The information contained in Appendix C can 
be used to estimate the annual runoff volume 
for a given parcel under either pre- or post-de
velopment conditions by multiplying the mean annual 
rainfall depth for the given area, obtained from th
e Figures in Appendix A.3, times the appropriate 
runoff coefficient based upon the DCIA and curv
e number characteristics for the meteorological 
zone in which the parcel is located, listed in Appendix C.  This estimate is calculated as follows: 

 

 
Annual Runoff Volume  (ac-ft) = 
 

Linear interpolation can be used to estimate annua
l runoff coefficients for combinations of DCIA 
and curve number which fall between the values included in Appendix C. 

 

 As seen in Appendix C, a wide degree of va
riability is present in calculated annual runoff 
coefficients for various combinations of DCIA
 and non-DCIA curve numbers between the five 
meteorological zones in Florida.  Increases in 
DCIA as well as increases
 in the non-DCIA curve 
number both result in significant increases in th
e calculated annual runoff coefficients.  To 
illustrate the general relative relationships 
between DCIA, curve number, and annual runoff 
volumes, a set of average annual runoff coeffi
cients was generated by calculating the mean 
runoff coefficient for each combination of DC
IA and non-DCIA curve number for the five 
meteorological zones in Florida.  A graphical su
mmary of this relationship is given in Figure 4-
4. This graph indicates a linear relationship between
 runoff coefficients and percent DCIA,  with 
an exponential relationship between runoff coeffi
cient and curve number.  Increases in curve 
numbers, particularly at curve number values in 
excess of 80, result in substantial increases in 
the estimated annual runoff coefficient and corresponding annual runoff volume. 
 
in
  
12
ft
  
1
  
x
  
Value
  
C
  
x
  
(inches)
  
Rainfall
  
Annual
  
Mean
  
x
  
(acres)
Area  
 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-41 
 
 
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
0
20
40
60
80
100
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
"
C
"
 
V
a
l
u
e
P
e
r
c
e
n
t
 
D
C
I
A
 
(
%
)
C
u
r
v
e
 
N
u
m
b
e
r
 
 
 
Figure 4-4.  General Relationships Between Percent DCIA, Curve Number, and C Value. 
 

 

 

 

 

A graphical illustration of the distribution of 
runoff coefficients as a function of DCIA 
and curve number for the Panhandle (Zone 1) rainfall 
distribution is given in Figure 4-5.   In this 
meteorological region, DCIA appears to have a re
latively small impact on runoff coefficient at 
DCIA percentages of 40 or less.  However, 
at percentages above 40, the runoff coefficient 
appears to increase rapidly.  Changes in curve number appear to have a minimal impact on 

runoff coefficients until the curve number begins 
to exceed approximately 85.  Above this value, 
subsequent increases in curve number result in large increases in runoff coefficient. 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-42 
Panhandle
(Zone 1)
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Curve Number (CN)
30405060708090
Percent DCIA (%)
0
20

40

60

80
100
0.0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 
C Value
 
 
 
Figure 4-5. Distribution of C Values as 
a Function of DCIA and Curve Number 
for the Panhandle Area (Zone 1). 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-43 
 
 

 A graphical representation of the distribution 
of runoff coefficients as a function of DCIA 
and curve number for the Florida Keys meteorologi
cal zone is given in Figure 4-6.  For this 
rainfall distribution, DCIA appears to have a re
latively minimal impact on runoff coefficients 
until the DCIA begins to exceed 
a value of approximately 70.  Above this value, subsequent 
increases in DCIA result in rela
tively large increases in runoff coefficients.  Changes in curve 
number appear to have a relatively small imp
act on runoff coefficient until the curve number 
begins to exceed a value of approximately 95.  A
bove this value, runoff coefficients begin to 
increase rapidly.  The data presented in Figure 
4-6 suggest that, for a given combination of 
DCIA and curve number, the runoff coefficient for the Florida Keys zone is substantially lower 

than the runoff coefficient which would occur in the Panhandle region. 
 

A graphical representation of the state-wide m
ean distribution of runoff coefficients as a 
function of DCIA and curve number 
is given in Figure 4-7.  This diagram represents the average 
of the five designated meteorological zones within 
the State.  On a state-wide basis, significant 
changes in runoff volume do not occur until th
e DCIA value exceeds approximately 45-50 and 
the curve number exceeds 90. 
 

For comparison purposes, modeled annual 
runoff coefficients for a hypothetical 
development with a DCIA of 40% and a non-DCIA
 curve number of 70 are given in Figure 4-8.  
If this development were to be constructed in the Florida Keys (Zone 3) or Central (Zone 2) 

portions of the State, approximately 36% of the 
annual rainfall would become stormwater runoff. 
However, if this development were to be c
onstructed in the Panhandle area, approximately 39-
40% of the annual rainfall would become stormw
ater runoff.  On a state-wide average, 
approximately 37.5% of the rainfall which o
ccurs on the hypothetical development would 
become stormwater runoff.  Lower than average 
annual runoff coefficients would be observed in 
the Florida Keys (Zone 3), Central Area (Zone 
2), and Gulf Coast Area (Zone 4), with higher 
runoff coefficients observed in the Panhandle (Zone 1) and Southeast Coastal (Zone 5). 
 

The differences in annual runoff coeffici
ents between the meteorological regions 
summarized in Figure 4-8 are due primarily to di
fferences in the distribution of rain events 
which occur at each of these sites.  For exampl
e, the Key West and Melbourne regional sites are 
characterized by a high percentage of annual even
ts with a relatively low rainfall depth which 
generate little or no measurable runoff volume.  
Since a large portion of the annual rainfall in 
these areas is generated by small events, the net 
effect is to substantially decrease the annual 
runoff coefficient associated with these areas. 
 On the other hand, the Pensacola and Tallahassee 
areas are characterized by a high percentage of 
larger storm events, commonly associated with 
frontal boundaries which move through the area.  Si
nce larger rain events typically generate a 
larger proportion of stormwater runoff than sma
ller events, the annual runoff coefficients for 
these areas tend to be more elevated. 
 

The results summarized in Figure 4-8 have si
gnifi cant implications with respect to the 
performance efficiency of stormwater manageme
nt systems, particularly systems that have 
design criteria based on providing tr
eatment for the runoff generated by a stated rainfall event. 
Based on the information summarized in Figure 4-8, a 1-inch rain event in the Panhandle area 

will generate more runoff than a 1-inch rain even
t which occurs in the Florida Keys or Central 
areas.  This would create a substantial difference,
 not only in the required treatment volume, but 
also in the performance efficiency of a stor
mwater system designed for the same hypothetical 
development in the Panhandle and Florida Keys. 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-44 
 
Florida Keys
(Zone 3)
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Cu rve  Nu mb er (CN)
30405060708090
Percent  DCIA (%)
0
20

40

60

80
100
0.0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 
C Value
 
 
 
Figure 4-6. Distribution of C Values as 
a Function of DCIA and Curve Number 
for the Florida Keys (Zone 3). 
 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-45 
 
Statewide Average
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
Cu rve  Nu mb er (CN)
30405060708090
Percent DCIA (%)
0
20
40

60

80
100
0.0 
0.1 
0.2 
0.3 
0.4 
0.5 
0.6 
0.7 
0.8 
0.9 
C Value
 
  
 
 
 Figure 4-7. State-wide Mean Distributi
on of C Values as a Function of DCIA 
   andCurveNumber. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-46 
 
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
Zone 4
Zone 5
Annual C Values
0.30
0.32
0.34
0.36

0.38

0.40
Mean
 
 
Figure 4-8. Modeled Annual Runoff Coefficients (C Values) for a Hypothetical 
Development with a DCIA of 40% and a non-DCIA Curve Number of 70. 

 
 

 

 

 The phenomenon illustrated in Figure 4-8 is explained primarily by the relative number 

of small and large rain events associated with
 the different meteorological regions within the 
State.  For example, a comparison of the percen
tage of annual rainfall volume generated by rain 
events less than 0.1 inch at the designated meteor
ological regions is given in Figure 4-9.  For the 
Florida Keys (Zone 3) sites, approximately 5-8% of the annual rainfall volume is contributed by 

rain events less than 0.1 inch in depth.  Ba
sed upon the assumption that impervious surfaces 
provide an initial abstraction of approximate
ly 0.1 inch, no measurable runoff would be 
measured by rain events of this size.  In cont
rast, only approximately 3-6% of the annual rainfall 
volume in the Panhandle zone is contributed by rain events less than 0.1 inch in depth. 

 

 A comparison of the percentage of annual rainfall volume generated by rain events 

greater than 1 inch is given in Figure 4-10.  
Only approximately 49% of the annual rainfall 
volume which occurs in the Florida Keys (Zone 3)
 is generated by rain events greater than 1 
inch. However, at the Panhandle sites (Zone 1), approximately 62% of the annual rainfall volume 

occurs as a result of events greater than 1 
inch.  Since larger rain events generate a 
proportionately larger runoff volume due to the 
lessening impact of initial abstraction, areas 
which have a higher proportion of large rain even
ts can be expected to have a larger annual 
runoff coefficient. 

 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-47 
 

 
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
Zone 4

Zone 5
Annual Abstraction Loss
as Percent of Rainfall (%)
10
12
14

16
18

20
22
Me an
 
 
Figure 4-9.  Percentage of Annual Rainfall Volume Generated by Rain Events < 0.1 Inch. 
 

 

 
Zone 1
Zone 2
Zone 3
Zone 4
Zone 5
Percent of Annual Rainfall Volume
Le ss Than 0.1 Inch  (%)
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
Mean
 
 
Figure 4-10.  Percentage of Annual Rainfall Volume Generated by Rain Events >1 Inch. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
4-48 
 
 

A comparison of the percentage of annual rain
fall depth lost to abstraction on impervious 
surfaces for each of the meteorological zones is gi
ven in Figure 4-11.  In the Florida Keys (Zone 
3) area, approximately 21% of the total annual ra
infall which occurs on impervious surfaces is 
lost as a result of initial abstraction.  This 
rainfall, which is stored on the surface of the 
impervious areas, is removed by evaporation pro
cesses between storm events.  However, in the 
Panhandle (Zone 1) area, only 15% of the annual ra
infall depth is lost to initial abstraction on 
impervious surfaces due to the higher percentage of 
large rain events in this portion of the State. 
 

 

 
 
Zone 1
Zone 2

Zone 3
Zone 4
Zone 5
Percent of Annual Rainfall Volume
Greater Than 1.0 Inch (%)
40
45

50

55

60
65
Mean
 
 
 

 
Figure 4-11. Percentage of Annual Rainfall Depth Lost to Initial Abstraction on 
Impervious Surfaces. 
 

 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
 
 

 
  
 

 
SECTION  5 
 

 PERFORMANCE  EFFICIENCY  OF 
STORMWATER  MANAGEMENT  SYSTEMS
 
 
 
A substantial amount of research has been
 conducted over the past 20-25 years which 
demonstrates that some commonly used stormw
ater management techniques are much more 
efficient in removing and retaining pollutant loadi
ngs than others.  However, in spite of this 
research, many stormwater management facilities 
are selected or designed based upon the ability 
of the system to function hydraulically rather
 than with regards to pollutant removal 
effectiveness.  One of the primary objectives 
of this project is to evaluate stormwater 
management systems from a pollutant removal perspective and to make recommendations 

concerning the types of stormwater manageme
nt facilities which should be emphasized to 
maximize pollutant removal effectiveness while
 maintaining proper hydraulic function of the 
system. 

 

 This section provides an overview of the anticipated pollutant removal effectiveness of 

common stormwater management systems used within
 the State of Florida.  First, a literature 
review of previous research performed on t
ypical stormwater management systems within 
Florida is presented along with a summary of th
e pollutant removal effectiveness achieved by the 
evaluated studies.  Next, estimates of the polluta
nt removal effectiveness of common stormwater 
management systems are provided based upon curre
nt stormwater management design criteria 
within the State.  These estimates are based 
upon a combination of computer modeling and linear 
regression evaluations of relationships between
 performance efficiency and significant design 
parameters based on previous research. 

 

 The terms "detention" and "retention" are of
ten used interchangeably by engineers, even 
those who have been designing stormwater manage
ment facilities for many years.  For purposes of 
this evaluation, the following definitions shall apply: 
 

 
Detention
: The collection and temporary storage of stormwater, generally for a period 
of time ranging from 24-72 hours, in such a manner as to provide for 

treatment through physical, biological or chemical processes with 

subsequent gradual release of stormwater to downstream receiving waters. 
 

 

Retention
: On-site storage of stormwater with subsequent disposal by infiltration into 
the ground or evaporation in such a manner as to prevent direct discharge of 

stormwater runoff into receiving waters. 
 
 

 

 

 
5-1 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-2 
 
 
   
5.1 Literature-Based Removal Efficiencies
 
    forTypicalStormwaterTreatmentSystems
 
 
 A literature review was conducted of previous 
research performed in the State of Florida 
which quantifies pollutant removal efficiencies associated with various stormwater management 

systems used throughout the State.  Each study 
which was obtained was evaluated for adequacy 
of the database, with special attention to factor
s such as length of study, number of runoff events 
monitored, monitoring methodology, as well as comp
leteness and accuracy of the work.  It was 
preferred that selected studies contain at least 
a 3-month period of data collection, representing a 
wide range of rainfall and antecedent dry period conditions. 
 

Unfortunately, for a number of studies, the 
only available database for a particular 
stormwater management facility represented a relatively small and limited data collection 

process.  In other cases, the study evaluated only 
the outflow from the system and did not present 
sufficient information to estimate system performa
nce efficiency.  Some studies were identified 
which evaluated hybrid or experimental system
s which cannot be classified into a common 
stormwater system type associated with an existing design criteria.  All evaluated studies were 

carefully examined on a case-by-case basis and 
a decision was made on whether or not to 
include the data in the removal efficiency estimat
es.  In general, studies with less than five 
monitored storm events and studies which could 
not be classified into a common stormwater 
management practice were excluded.  Only stormw
ater management facilities constructed within 
the State of Florida were included in this eval
uation.  The resulting database contains pollutant 
removal efficiencies for the following types of common stormwater management facilities: 
 

1.   Dry retention   3.   Dry detention with filtration 

2.   Wet detention   4.   Off-line retention/detention (dual pond) 
 
A discussion of removal efficiencies for typical 
stormwater treatment systems is provided in the 
following sections. 
 
 

5.1.1 Dry Retention Systems
 
 
Dry retention systems consist primarily of in
filtration basins which are used to retain 
stormwater runoff on-site, thus reducing discha
rge to downstream waterbodies.  Disposal of 
stormwater runoff occurs by infiltration into th
e groundwater and, to a lesser degree, evaporation 
from the water surface during periods of standing 
water.  Because these systems rely primarily 
on infiltration of stormwater into the ground to re
gain the available pond storage, construction of 
these systems is limited to areas with low groundw
ater tables and permeable soils.  The soil and 
water table conditions must be such that the 
system can provide for 
a new volume of storage 
through percolation or evaporation within a 
specified period, generally 72 hours following the 
stormwater event. 
 

A schematic diagram of a typical dry reten
tion system is given in Figure 5-1.  This 
system is constructed as a dry basin with 
the pond bottom a minimum of 1-3 ft above the 
seasonal high groundwater table elevation, dependi
ng on applicable design criteria.  The pond is 
typically designed to hold a volume of stormwat
er, called the "treatment volume", which is 
equivalent to either the runoff generated by a sp
ecified rain event or a certain depth of runoff 
over the contributing watershed area. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-3 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5-1.  Schematic of a Dry Retention Facility. 
 

 

 

 

 

Dry retention ponds may be constructed as e
ither on-line or off-line systems.  Off-line 
systems typically provide storage for the treatme
nt volume only.  These systems typically utilize 
a weir structure to divert runoff into the re
tention pond until the treatment volume is reached. 
Runoff discharges in excess of the volume bypa
ss the pond and discharge into the detention 
portion of the system or directly off-site. 
 In an on-line system, the entire runoff volume 
discharges into the pond.  Runoff in excess of 
the treatment volume may discharge through an 
outfall structure. For on-line systems, an additi
onal volume may be provided above the treatment 
volume for peak attenuation of on-site discharg
es during major (10-year, 25-year, or 100-year) 
storm events.  The bottom of the pond is designed to
 be dry at all times except within 72 hours of 
the design storm event. 
 

Although retention ponds are most commonly cons
tructed as basins similar to Figure 5-1, 
retention pond designs can be highly variable as
 long as the system performs the desired 
infiltration function.  Retention ponds can be c
onstructed as linear pond areas along road right-
of-way, within recreational sites such as pl
aygrounds or athletic fields, within natural 
depressional areas, in open land, as part of the la
ndscaping for a commercial site, or as a shallow 
swale.  Dual use of facilities provides a met
hod for conserving valuable land resources while 
incorporating stormwater management systems into the on-site landscaping. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-4 
 
 

As the stormwater runoff percolates thr
ough the soil, migrating toward the underlying 
groundwater, a variety of physical, chemical, a
nd biological processes occur which retain a 
majority of the stormwater pollutants in the uppe
r layers of the soil with
in the retention basin 
(Harper, 1985; Harper, 1988).  Previous re
search conducted by Harper (1985, 1988) has 
indicated that stormwater pollutants are trapped in
 relatively stable associations in the upper 4-6 
inches of soil within retention basins.  Con
centrations of nutrients and heavy metals in 
groundwater beneath dry retention basins are t
ypically lower in value than measured in 
stormwater runoff entering the retention system. 
 

Even though dry retention systems prevent di
rect discharge of stormwater runoff to 
receiving waterbodies, care must be taken in the 
design of retention facilities to ensure that 
significant underground migration of pollutants 
does not occur to adjacent surface waters.  
Pollutant loadings removed by the system may still reach adjacent receiving waters when 

retention basins are constructed immediately ad
jacent to the shoreline.  Lateral distances 
between retention ponds and surface water should be 
maintained as large as possible, at least 100 
ft or more, depending on the site conditions (FDEP, 1988).   
 

The side slopes and bottoms of dry retention 
basins should be fully vegetated with sod 
cover grown in sandy permeable soils.  Vegetation plays a crucial role in the removal of 

contaminants from stormwater and in stabilization 
of the soil.  The roots from vegetation assist 
in maintaining the permeability of the basin soils. 
 Bahia grass is typically used for sod cover 
since it is drought resistant and can withstand periods of inundation. 
 

In spite of the fact that on-line dry retention systems are used extensively throughout the 
State of Florida, relatively little research has b
een conducted to evaluate the pollutant removal 
effectiveness of these systems.  Only two references on dry retention systems were identified 

during the literature search, both of which were
 conducted as part of the Orlando Areawide 208 
Assessment during the late 1970s.  A summary of 
the treatment efficiencies for dry retention 
systems, based on available research studies in 
Florida, is given in Ta
ble 5-1.  The first study, 
published  in 1978 by the East Central Flor
ida Regional Planning Council (ECFRPC) was 
conducted on a commercial watershed in Orlando.  
Removal efficiencies for the dry retention 
system reported in this study ranged from approxi
mately 61% for total phosphorus to more than 
90% for species of nitrogen.  Info
rmation on the amount of retention storage available within this 
system was not provided so the removal efficiencies
 could not be related to a particular treatment 
volume. 
 

The second study, conducted by Wanielista 
(1978), was also part of the Orlando 
Areawide 208 Assessment.  This study presented estimated removal efficiencies for dry retention 

systems based upon simulations of yearly rain
fall/runoff events.  Removal efficiencies are 
presented as a function of retention volume, with 
increasing removal efficiencies associated with 
increasing runoff  volumes  retained.  This  simu
lation  assumes  that  the retention pond drains 
completely between rain events 
so that the design retention volume is available for the next 
storm event.  Removal efficienci
es of approximately 80% are associated with retention of 0.25 
inches of runoff, 90% for 0.5 inches of runoff, 
and 95% for a retention volume of 0.75 inches of 
runoff. These values have been used extensivel
y throughout the State of Florida as estimates of 
the performance efficiency of dry retention systems. 

FDEP \ STORMWATER  TREATMENT  REPORT 
5-5
